# Female-mice-pituiatry-scRNA-seq-analysis
https://doi.org/10.1210/endocr/bqaa245 

Single-cell RNA sequencing of pituitary cells from control female animals indicates that both Msi1 and Pou1f1 mRNAs are expressed in Gh-expressing somatotropes. Pituitaries from 8-week-old, control, diestrous FVB females bearing 2 alleles each of floxed MSI1 and MSI2 (n = 6) were collected and individually dispersed. Following mechanical dispersion, cells were pelleted and washed once with Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle’s Medium (DMEM). Cells were pelleted again and fixed with methanol according to the 10x Genomics methanol fixation protocol. The morning of sample submission, cells were rehydrated and pooled into 2 pools of 3 pituitaries each. Each pool was then counted and submitted for processing to the Genomics Core at the Arkansas Children’s Hospital Center for Translational Pediatric Research. Single-cell 3′ library generation was performed using a 10x Genomics Chromium Controller and the v3 reagent kit (10x Genomics) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Cell suspensions were loaded onto the middle 4 channels of a chromium single-cell A chip according to the manufacturer’s instructions, aiming for 10 000 cells per channel. Following generation of single-cell gel bead-in-emulsions, reverse transcription, fragmentation, and complementary DNA (cDNA) amplification, library preparations and bar coding were performed using the Illumina TruSeq Stranded mRNA Sample Preparation Kit v2 as per the manufacturer’s instructions. Libraries were validated with a fragment analyzer for fragment size and quantified by use of a Qubit fluorometer. A total of 200 pM of each library was pooled for sequencing on the Illumina NextSeq 500 platform using a high output flow cell (100 cycles) to generate approximately 25 million 75 base reads per sample. 10x Genomics Cell Ranger 3.1.0 mkfastq wrapper and was used to perform sample demultiplexing and generate fastq files.

## Bioinformatics Analysis: 
Demultiplexed fastq files were analyzed with the 10x Genomics Cell Ranger 3.1.0 count function for sequence alignment and gene counting. The reads were aligned to a custom reference using STAR and transcript counts were generated. The University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC) mm10 reference mouse transcriptome was amended by annotating chromosome 11: 50 948 572-50 949 192 in the gene transfer file as an artificial single exon gene on the negative strand named “Prop1L” as described by Cheung et al. A custom reference was then compiled using the cellranger mkref command, and the custom reference was used for Cell Ranger/STAR alignment instead of the original UCSC mm10 transcriptome. Seurat was used to preprocess the raw counts generated by cellranger count to filter cells with low-quality cells, cell doublets, and cells with a high percentage of mitochondrial genes. We filtered cells that have unique feature counts over more than the 75th percentile plus 1.5 times the interquartile range or less than the 25th percentile minus 1.5 times the interquartile range and cells with mitochondrial counts outside the same range with respect to mitochondrial gene percentage. Counts were normalized using the LogNormalize method, and the 2000 highest variable features were selected and data were scaled by linear transformation and principal component analysis performed on the scaled data. A JackStraw procedure determined the significant principal component analysis components that have a strong enrichment of low P value features. A graph-based clustering approach embedded cells in a graph structure by gene expression patterns and into interconnected “quasi-cliques” or “communities” with Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection (UMAP), which visually groups cells with similar gene expression signatures. Seurat FindNeighbors and FindClusters functions were optimized to label clusters based on the visual clustering in the projections and cell types assigned. The top 10 genes expressed in each cell type cluster and shareed considerable overlap with the genes identified as enriched in the same pituitary cell types from the scRNAseq data sets of Ho et al. Differential expression analysis was performed using MAST, a generalized linear model framework that treats cellular detection rate as a covariate. Data were evaluated from each pool separately and revealed a high level of reproducibility between the samples, and the data from each pool (9230 and 9071 cells, respectively) were normalized for read depth and aggregated into one data set containing 18 301 cells. The aggregate UMAP plot was very similar to the individual UMAP plots, indicating that there was very limited biological or technical variability between the duplicate sample pools. After clustering, we found highly expressed hormone genes (Gh, Prl, and Pomc) could be detected in blood cells. This most likely arose as a consequence of cell lysis during cell preparation, resulting in a cross contamination of the released mRNAs. This issue is a common problem for scRNAseq protocols. Since these hormone genes would not be expected to be expressed in blood cells, they represent background noise signals in the analysis. Consequently, we employed an expression cutoff threshold for the UMAP plots in and dot plot to remove the background cross-contamination signal.
